# Algorithms
Bubble sort is the most basic way to sort a collection, and the most slowlest. It works by sequentially going through your array and comparing two values at a time, swapping them if necessary. It then repeats the process until no swaps are required.

Selection sort is slow too.  It has O(n2) time complexity, making it inefficient on large lists, and generally performs worse than the similar insertion sort. We start by assuming that the first number in the array is the minimum. We then find out the smallest number in the array and if there is any number smaller than the first number, we exchange the numbers after one pass through the array. After this, the number in first position is smallest and array is sorted till position 1.
Next, we assume that the number at second position is the smallest in the remainder of the array. We pass through the array comparing each number with this number. After the pass is complete, we exchange this number with the smallest number in the remainder of the array. At the end of this, we will have first and second number in the array in sorted order. We repeat this step for rest of the numbers until all the numbers are sorted.

Quick sort is a divide and conquer algorithm in the style of merge sort. The basic idea is to find a “pivot” item in the array to compare all other items against, then shift items such that all of the items before the pivot are less than the pivot value and all the items after the pivot are greater than the pivot value. After that, recursively perform the same operation on the items before and after the pivot.

